Create wiki page detailing BN evaluations (#7111)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team/Evaluations/en.md

Each evaluation has two phases: *individual* and *group*. These phases differ in the details of how they work for applications or regular BN evaluations and will be detailed below.

Three NAT members are assigned to each evaluation, but additional members may join in the conversation during the group phase if there are elements of the evaluation that need further discussion on things the initial assigned NAT members cannot come to a consensus on.

If an assigned NAT member is unavailable or otherwise cannot do an assigned evaluation, their task can be randomly reassigned to another NAT member from the NAT website.

References to Discord in this article pertain to the BN Discord server, which has limited entry to the BN, NAT, GMT, and former members for organisation, discussion, and group socialisation.

## Beatmap Nominator applications

> Every application submitted to the NAT website that passes the [Beatmap Nominator Test](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Beatmap_Nominator_Test) will be reviewed by NAT members to determine whether or not the applicant can enter the Beatmap Nominator group.  For more information on how to apply, please see [Becoming a Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Becoming_a_Beatmap_Nominator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every application submitted to the NAT website that passes the [Beatmap Nominator Test](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Beatmap_Nominator_Test) will be reviewed by NAT members to determine whether or not the applicant can enter the Beatmap Nominator group. For more information on how to apply, please see [Becoming a Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Becoming_a_Beatmap_Nominator).
```

### Process

> When a user applies to become a BN, the NAT will be notified via the BN site Discord bot in their respective Discord channel. The notification will include the applicant's name and test score, as well as which NAT members have been assigned to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user applies to become a BN, the NAT will be notified via the "bnsite" Discord bot in their respective Discord channel. The notification will include the applicant's name and test score, as well as which NAT members have been assigned to the application.
```

In the case of [failed applications](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Becoming_a_Beatmap_Nominator#failed-applications), the NAT will also determine the length of the user's cooldown before they may apply again. The standard cooldown is 90 days from the date of the application, but the duration may be reduced for applicants with relatively few issues they need to work on before becoming a Beatmap Nominator. When this happens, the conditions for reduced cooldowns will be indicated in the feedback sent to the applicants.

Once consensus is reached and feedback is written, NAT members will review the feedback to polish feedback accuracy and clarity for the applicant. They then send the feedback to the applicant, after which the evaluation will be archived for future reference. The feedback itself will delivered by the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) as an osu! chat message.

## Current Beatmap Nominator evaluations

Every BN is reviewed regularly by members of the NAT. 

> For Nominators on [probation](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators#probationary-beatmap-nominators), or that have been issued an [activity](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Rules#activity) warning, their next evaluation will be scheduled for roughly 1 month after being placed on probation or receiving their warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Nominators on [probation](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators#probationary-beatmap-nominators), or that have been issued an [activity](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Rules#activity) warning, their next evaluation will be scheduled for roughly 1 month after being placed on probation or receiving their warning.
```

For full Beatmap Nominators without recent warnings, their evaluations will be scheduled to occur every 3 months.

The duration between evaluations is automatically scheduled by the [NAT website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/). However, if there is a substantial cause for concern about a BN's performance at a sooner date, NAT members can also manually schedule an evaluation to happen sooner than normal.

Just like applications, current BN evaluations are randomly assigned 3 NAT members and will be announced in the respective mode's NAT Discord channels.

### Individual phase

> The individual phase will show on the BN website 2 weeks before it is due, letting NAT members know what evaluations are upcoming to aid them in managing their workload appropriately. During the individual phase, NAT members can submit their evaluations on the Beatmap Nominator's performance. These evaluations will account for the BN's nominations, any nomination resets that happened on their nominations, as well as check on the BN's overall modding across a sample of their nominated maps. NAT members will also be checking for whether the BN is following the [Beatmap Nominator rules](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Rules) and [expectations](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Expectations) appropriately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The individual phase will show on the BN website 2 weeks before it is due, letting NAT members know what evaluations are upcoming to aid them in managing their workload appropriately. During the individual phase, NAT members can submit their evaluations on the Beatmap Nominator's performance. These evaluations will account for the BN's nominations, any nomination resets that happened on their nominations, as well as check on the BN's overall modding across a sample of their nominated maps. NAT members will also be checking for whether the BN is following the [Beatmap Nominator rules](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Rules) and [expectations](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Expectations) appropriately.
```

### Group phase

After three NAT members have submitted their evaluations, the evaluation will be moved to the group phase. During the group phase, NAT members will discuss their evaluations with each other, come to a consensus, and write evaluation feedback. The results and feedback will vary depending on the BN. If it is found a BN is not performing up to standard, they may either be given a warning or placed on probation depending on the severity of the issue. 

Once the feedback is written and reviewed, it will be sent and accompany any group changes needed if the BN is moved from the probationary Beatmap Nominators to the full Beatmap Nominators, or vice versa. The feedback will be delivered by the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) as an osu! chat message.

Warnings and being placed on probation due to subpar performance as a full Beatmap Nominator are effective for roughly one year. If a BN has reoccurring issues down the line after being warned or placed on probation recently, they may be removed from the Beatmap Nominators on future evaluations.

## Special evaluations

### Activity

> Beatmap Nominator activity is checked automatically by the NAT website on the 1st of every month. If it has found that there are nominators not meeting the activity requirements, they will be flagged and posted in their respective mode's NAT channel for NAT members to review by the "bnsite" Discord bot. Review will include whether the BN has posted an absence notice recently, and a double check to ensure the website check is accurate to the BN's activity status. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beatmap Nominator's activity is checked automatically by the NAT website on the 1st of every month. If it has found that there are nominators not meeting the activity requirements, they will be flagged and posted in their respective mode's NAT channel for NAT members to review by the "bnsite" Discord bot. Review will include whether the BN has posted an absence notice recently, and a double check to ensure the website check is accurate to the BN's activity status. 
```

Generally, good- and standard-term evaluations are relatively simple. Beatmap Nominators who have not been recently warned or placed on probation, and were not about to be warned for issues, will usually resign on good terms. Standard terms is typically used for nominators who have been warned recently, are on probation, or were about to be warned for issues on their upcoming current BN evaluation.

Once a consensus for the resignation terms has been reached, the NAT will send the BN a message via the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) informing them of their status and when they can reapply to become a BN if they so choose.

### Mock evaluations

> In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. For the mock evaluation they participated in, the nominator will be able to read the individual evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. Whilist NAT members are obliged to participate in the evaluation process, there are no consequences for nominators who do not fulfill the given assignment. For the mock evaluation they participated in, the nominator will be able to read the individual evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived.
```
Would add a word that BNs are fine if they don't fulfill the assignment.

> In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. While NAT members are obliged to participate in the evaluation process, there are no consequences for nominators who do not fulfill the given assignment. For the mock evaluation they participated in, the nominator will be able to read the individual evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived.
> 
> Mock evaluations allow the NAT to scout for future NAT members, as well as for Beatmap Nominators to see how the NAT evaluates applications and learn from them if joining the NAT in the future is something they are interested in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. For mock evaluations they participated in, nominators will be able to read the individual evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived.

Mock evaluations allow the NAT to scout for future NAT members, as well as for Beatmap Nominators to see how the NAT evaluates applications and learn from them if joining the NAT in the future is something they are interested in. As such, there are no consequences for not completing them.
```

Once the consensus is set and feedback is written, NAT members will review the feedback to polish feedback accuracy and clarity for the applicant. They can then send the feedback to the applicant, after which the evaluation will be archived for future reference. Sent feedback in this way will be delivered via the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) in an osu! chat.

## Current Beatmap Nominator Evaluations

Every BN is reviewed regularly by members of the NAT. 

For Nominators on [Probation](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators#probationary-beatmap-nominators), or that have been issued an [activity](/wiki/en/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Rules#activity) warning, their next evaluation will be scheduled for roughly 1 month after being placed on probation or receiving their warning.

For full Beatmap Nominators without recent warnings, their evaluations will be scheduled to occur every 3 months.

> The duration between evaluations is automatically scheduled by the [NAT website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/). However, if there is a substantial cause for concern about a BN's performance at a sooner date, NAT members can also manually schedule an evaluation to happen sooner than normal.

Author: This suggestion has no changes, what do I need to fix here?

### Group Phase

After three NAT members have submitted their evaluations, the evaluation will be moved to the group phase. During the group phase, NAT members will discuss their evaluations with each other, decide on a consensus, and write evaluation feedback. Feedback and consensus will vary depending on the BN. If it is found a BN is not performing up to standard, they may either be given a warning or placed on probation depending on the severity of the issue. 

Once the feedback is written and reviewed, it will be sent and accompany any group changes needed if the BN is moved from Probation to Full, or from Full to Probation. Sent feedback in this way will be delivered via the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) in an osu! chat.

Warnings and being placed on Probation due to subpar performance as a full nominator are effective for roughly one year. If a nominator has reocurring issues down the line after being warned or placed on probation recently, they may be removed from the Beatmap Nominators on future evaluations.

## Special Evaluations

### Activity

> Beatmap Nominator activity is checked automatically by the NAT website on the 1st of every month. If it has found there are nominators not meeting the activity requirements, they will be flagged and posted in their respective mode's NAT channel for NAT members to review by the bnsite Discord bot. Review will include whether the BN has posted an absence notice recently, and double check to ensure the website check is accurate to the BN's activity status. 

Author: The bot is literally named "bnsite" and is something nominators already see as it also posts issues on qualified maps in the server's report feed channel. I'd like it to be clear it's the same one for any BN Reading

> Beatmap Nominator activity is checked automatically by the NAT website on the 1st of every month. If it has found there are nominators not meeting the activity requirements, they will be flagged and posted in their respective mode's NAT channel for NAT members to review by the bnsite Discord bot. Review will include whether the BN has posted an absence notice recently, and double check to ensure the website check is accurate to the BN's activity status. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beatmap Nominator activity is checked automatically by the NAT website on the 1st of every month. If it has found that there are nominators not meeting the activity requirements, they will be flagged and posted in their respective mode's NAT channel for NAT members to review by the "bnsite" Discord bot. Review will include whether the BN has posted an absence notice recently, and a double check to ensure the website check is accurate to the BN's activity status. 
```

Generally, good and standard terms evaluations are relatively simple. BNs who have not been recently warned or placed on probation, and were not about to be warned for issues will usually resign on good terms. Standard terms is typically used for BNs who have been warned recently, are on probation, or were about to be warned for issues on their upcoming current BN evaluation. 

Once the good or standard terms consensus is set, the NAT will send the BN a message via the [mappersguild bot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/23648635) informing them of their status and when they can reapply to BN if they so choose.

### Mock Evaluations

> In addition to NAT members evaluating, mock evaluations may also be given out to BN members for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, BNs will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but their evaluation will not determine the final consensus for the application unless the NAT evaluators can not come to their own consensus. BNs will not be able to see the evaluation in group phase, but will be able to read the evaluations in an anonymized format once the application is archived. Mock evaluations allow the NAT to scout for future NAT members, as well as for BNs to see how NAT evaluate applications and learn from them if joining NAT is something they are interested in in the future.

Reviewer: are all nominators able to see the archived evaluations in general or is this specific to the ones partaking in the mock evaluation? (this implies the former)

```suggestion
In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. Nominators will not be able to see the evaluation in the group phase, but will be able to read the evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived. Mock evaluations allow the NAT to scout for future NAT members, as well as for Beatmap Nominators to see how the NAT evaluates applications and learn from them if joining the NAT in the future is something they are interested in.
```

Author: Only the application evaluations they participated in, not sure how to make this clearer

Reviewer: Maybe like this

```suggestion
In addition to BN evaluations by NAT members, mock evaluations may also be given out to Beatmap Nominators for new BN application evaluations. In mock evaluations, nominators will submit individual evaluations alongside the NAT, but it will not determine the final result for the application unless the NAT evaluators cannot come to their own consensus. For the mock evaluation they participated in, the nominator will be able to read the individual evaluations in an anonymised format once the application is archived.

Mock evaluations allow the NAT to scout for future NAT members, as well as for Beatmap Nominators to see how the NAT evaluates applications and learn from them if joining the NAT in the future is something they are interested in.
```
